Dem granuheap example (#1190)
chaos-polymtl/lethe: doc/source/examples/dem/granuheap/granuheap.rst

==================================
Granuheap
==================================

> This example simulates the flow of a cohesive granular material inside a Granuheap instrument using the discrete element method (DEM). For more detailed information on the concepts and physical meaning of the parameters in Lethe, we strongly recommend visiting `DEM parameters <../../../parameters/dem/dem.html>`_.

Reviewer: maybe add the link to the granuheap instrument . like granuheap could itself point to the link.

----------------------------------
Features
----------------------------------

- Solvers: ``lethe-particles``
- Three-dimensional problem
- Moving solid object
- `GMSH <https://gmsh.info/>`_ grids

----------------------------
Files Used in This Example
----------------------------

All files mentioned below are located in the example's folder (``examples/dem/3d-granuheap``).

- Mesh file: ``cylinder.msh`` and ``support.msh``

> - Parameters file for the problem: ``granuheap.prm``

Reviewer: Did you add the .geo and the .msh files to your PR? They are not in the list of files added.

Author: @blaisb Yes, I added the two .msh files to the PR. I don't understand why they don't show on Git Hub. They are in the examples/dem/3d-granuheap folder and I have nothing to commit. I'll try to fix that.
I don't have .geo files. My Python code gives me the .msh file only. Maybe I can add the Python file in the example? or I can change my Python code to save the .geo files and add them to the example.

Reviewer: Add the python file then :)

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

> This example simulates the flow of water-wet sand during a Granuheap experiment. First, the packing of particles is generated by inserting particles inside a cylinder. After 1.6s, the cylinder rises, and the particles can flow freely, producing a heap. We compare the numerical results with our experimental results. To remain consistent with granuheap, we use the same metrics in our simulations: a cylinder of 0.01m in diameter. For more information about granuheap procedures, visit the `granuheap web page <https://www.granutools.com/en/granuheap>`_. To match our experimental results, we test multiple combinations of parameters in our simulations. We use the work of Hu *et al.* `[1] <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2021.11.049>`_ as a basis for the choice of variable parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example simulates the flow of wet sand during a Granuheap experiment. First, the packing of particles is generated by inserting particles inside a cylinder. After 1.6s, the cylinder rises, and the particles can flow freely, producing a heap. We compare the numerical results with our experimental results. To remain consistent with Granuheap, we use the same metrics in our simulations: a cylinder of 0.01m in diameter. For more information about granuheap procedures, visit the `granuheap web page <https://www.granutools.com/en/granuheap>`_. To match our experimental results, we test multiple combinations of parameters in our simulations. We use the work of Hu *et al.* `[1] <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2021.11.049>`_ as a basis for the choice of variable parameters.
```

what do you mean for variable parameters? Maybe I would say here contact properties?

--------------
Parameter File
--------------

Mesh
~~~~~

> The domain we simulate is a rectangular box measuring :math:`0.045\times0.02\times0.02` metres, made using the deal.ii grid generator.  The grid is refined 6 times using the ``set initial refinement`` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The domain we simulate is a rectangular box measuring :math:`0.045\times0.02\times0.02` meters, made using the deal.ii grid generator.  The grid is refined 6 times using the ``set initial refinement`` parameter.
```

We tend to use the US and not the CA/UK spelling

.. code-block:: text

  subsection mesh
    set type               = dealii
    set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle
    set grid arguments     = 3,1,1 : -0.010,-0.01,-0.01 : 0.035, 0.01,0.01 : true
    set initial refinement = 6
  end
  
  
Boundaries Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The bottom of the domain is set as an outlet to reduce the time of the simulation. Thus, all particles leaving the support plate will no longer be part of the simulation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bottom of the domain is set as an outlet to allow the particles to leave the simulation domain, thus reducing the reducing the computational time of the simulation.
```

.. code-block:: text
  
  subsection DEM boundary conditions
    set number of boundary conditions = 1

    subsection boundary condition 0
      set boundary id         = 0
      set type                = outlet
    end
  end

Lagrangian Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The particles are polydispersed with a density of 1922 :math:`kg/m^3`. 400 000 particles would be needed to match the 2 g of sand used in the experiment. However, to reduce the simulation's duration of this example, we insert only 200 000 particles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The particles have a polydisperse size distribution with a density of 1922 :math:`kg/m^3`. 400 000 particles would be needed to match the 2 g of sand used in the experiment. However, to reduce the simulation's duration of this example, we insert only 200 000 particles.
```

> According to Hu *et al.* `[1] <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2021.11.049>`_, the rolling friction and the surface energy parameters impact the final simulated angle of repose the most. Thus, we simulate twelve combinations of those parameters. The ``rolling friction`` is between 0.3 and 0.7, and the ``surface energy`` is between 0.0010 and 0.0100. The ``granuheap.prm`` file of this example is specifically for a ``rolling friction`` of 0.5 and a ``surface energy`` of 0.0100.

Reviewer: I would look at Audrey's pneumatic conveying example she had found a nice way to cite articles.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection lagrangian physical properties
    set g                        = -9.81, 0, 0
    set number of particle types = 1
    subsection particle type 0
      set size distribution type            = custom
      set custom diameters                  = 1.02e-4 , 1.16e-4 , 1.33e-4 , 1.52e-4 , 1.75e-4 , 2.00e-4 , 2.29e-4 , 2.62e-4 , 3.01e-4 , 3.44e-4
      set custom volume fractions	          = 0.04 , 0.06 , 0.07 , 0.10 , 0.13 , 0.15 , 0.16 , 0.14 , 0.10 , 0.05
      set number of particles               = 200000
      set density particles                 = 1922
      set young modulus particles           = 5.94e4
      set poisson ratio particles           = 0.4
      set restitution coefficient particles = 0.9

>       set friction coefficient particles    = 0.5

Reviewer: The friction coefficient is also taken from this article ?

          set file name              = cylinder.msh
          set simplex                = true
        end
        subsection translational velocity
          set Function expression = if (t>1.6, 0.05, 0) ; 0 ; 0
        end
      end
      subsection solid object 1
        subsection mesh
          set type                   = gmsh
          set file name              = support.msh
          set simplex                = true
        end
      end
    end
  end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simulation runs for 2.2 seconds in real time. We output the simulation results in every 1000 iterations.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection simulation control
    set time step         = 7.54e-6
    set time end          = 2.2
    set log frequency     = 1000
    set output frequency  = 1000
    set output path       = ./output/
    set output name       = granuheap
    set output boundaries = true
  end
    
-----------------------
Running the Simulation
-----------------------

A simulation with one set of values for the ``rolling friction`` and the ``surface energy`` can be launched using the following command:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>    mpirun -np 8 lethe-particles granuheap.prm

Reviewer: How is the post-processing script run to generate the images. It is not included in this PR also.

.. note::

>   This example needs a simulation time of approximately 5 hours on 12 processors using an AMD Ryzen 9 5900x 12-core processor x 24.

Reviewer: what do you mean x24?

Author: @blaisb I think it's the number of thread. I made a copy paste from my settings but I believe it's not a necessary information. I'll remove the x 24.

Reviewer: yeah just say 12 because we don't use the threads, only the physical cores :)

.. code-block:: text

  cylinder(x0, radius, n_points, height)
  support(x0, radius, n_points, height)

In this case, the cylinder is 0.02 tall with a radius of 0.005 and the support is 0.005 tall and has the same diameter as the cylinder.

.. code-block:: text

  cylinder(-0.005, 0.005, 50, 0.02)
  support(-0.01 ,0.005 ,50, 0.005)

.. figure:: images/meshfiles.png
    :width: 400
    :alt: Mesh
    :align: center

Mesh files can be generated using the following command.

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  python3 gmsh.py

--------------
Parameter File
--------------

Mesh
~~~~~

The domain we simulate is a rectangular box measuring :math:`0.045\times0.02\times0.02` meters, made using the deal.ii grid generator.  The grid is refined 6 times using the ``set initial refinement`` parameter.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection mesh
  set type               = dealii
  set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle
  set grid arguments     = 3,1,1 : -0.010,-0.01,-0.01 : 0.035, 0.01,0.01 : true
  set initial refinement = 6
  end
  
  
Boundaries Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The bottom of the domain is set as an outlet to allow the particles to leave the simulation domain, thus reducing the computational time of the simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bottom of the domain is set as an outlet to allow the particles to leave the triangulation, thus reducing the computational time of the simulation.
```

This way you don't repeat domain twice.

.. code-block:: text
    
  subsection DEM boundary conditions
  set number of boundary conditions = 1

  subsection boundary condition 0
  set boundary id         = 0
  set type                = outlet
  end
  end

Lagrangian Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The particles have a polydisperse size distribution with a density of 1922 :math:`kg/m^3`. 400 000 particles would be needed to match the 2 g of sand used in the experiment. However, to reduce the simulation's duration of this example, we insert only 200 000 particles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The particles have a polydisperse size distribution with a density of 1922 :math:`kg/m^3`. 400 000 particles would be needed to approximately match the 2 g of sand used in the experiment. However, to reduce the simulation's duration of this example, we insert only 200 000 particles.
```

> According to Hu *et al.* [#hu2022]_ the rolling friction and the surface energy parameters impact the final simulated angle of repose the most. Thus, we simulate twelve combinations of those parameters. The ``rolling friction`` is between 0.3 and 0.7, and the ``surface energy`` is between 0.0010 and 0.0100. The ``granuheap.prm`` file of this example is specifically for a ``rolling friction`` of 0.5 and a ``surface energy`` of 0.0100. 

Reviewer 2: you could say "angle of repose (AOR)" then use AOR for the remainder of this page.

Author: I use it only once but I'll add it anyway

> The water volume fraction of the wet sand used in the experiment is 0.325 %. According to the work of Liefferink *et al.* [#Liefferink2018]_, this water volume fraction matches an ``friction coefficient`` of 0.5. 

Reviewer 2: It's good that you have find a reference for the rolling friction coefficient. 

Maybe you could add something saying that this value can be used as a rough estimate of a realistic rolling friction coefficient for this example.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection lagrangian physical properties
  set g                        = -9.81, 0, 0
  set number of particle types = 1
  subsection particle type 0
  set size distribution type            = custom
  set custom diameters                  = 1.02e-4 , 1.16e-4 , 1.33e-4 , 1.52e-4 , 1.75e-4 , 2.00e-4 , 2.29e-4 , 2.62e-4 , 3.01e-4 , 3.44e-4
  set custom volume fractions           = 0.04 , 0.06 , 0.07 , 0.10 , 0.13 , 0.15 , 0.16 , 0.14 , 0.10 , 0.05
  set number of particles               = 200000
  set density particles                 = 1922
  set young modulus particles           = 5.94e4
  set poisson ratio particles           = 0.4
  set restitution coefficient particles = 0.9
  set friction coefficient particles    = 0.5
  set rolling friction particles        = 0.5
  set surface energy particles          = 0.01
  end
  set young modulus wall           = 1e7
  set poisson ratio wall           = 0.33
  set restitution coefficient wall = 0.9
  set friction coefficient wall    = 0.5
  set rolling friction wall        = 0.5
  set surface energy wall          = 1e-4
  end

Model Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The JKR contact model is used in this case because of the cohesive aspect of wet sand. Indeed, as Hu *et al.* [#hu2022]_ explain, the JKR method can better simulate agglomeration between particles than, for example, the Hertz-Mindlin contact model.

Reviewer 2: It is perfect that you justify the use of the JKR force model, but I'm not sure if your justification is right. 

Clearly, the JRK model is better than the Hertz-Mindlin model to simulate particle agglomeration since the JKR model is a cohesive force model and H-M is not. 

Why did you use the JKR model and instead of the DMT for example? (You don't need to answer this question here.) That would be a better justification IMO. 

You could say: We use the JKR model because it has be shown to correctly model particle agglomeration for wet sand (source here).

  set insertion box points coordinates               = 0.015, -0.00325, -0.00325: 0.035, 0.00325, 0.00325
  set insertion distance threshold                   = 1.2
  set insertion maximum offset                       = 0.05
  set insertion prn seed                             = 19
  set insertion direction sequence                   =  1, 2, 0
  end

Solid Object
~~~~~~~~~~~~

We set the cylinder's translational velocity to :math:`0.05 m/s` after the particles were loaded, thus when the simulation time is higher than 1.6s. 

.. code-block:: text

  subsection solid objects
  subsection solid surfaces
  set number of solids = 2
  subsection solid object 0
  subsection mesh
  set type                   = gmsh
  set file name              = cylinder.msh
  set simplex                = true
  end
  subsection translational velocity
  set Function expression = if (t>1.6, 0.05, 0) ; 0 ; 0
  end
  end
  subsection solid object 1
  subsection mesh
  set type                   = gmsh
  set file name              = support.msh
  set simplex                = true
  end
  end
  end
  end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The simulation runs for 2.2 seconds in real time. We output the simulation results in every 1000 iterations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process duration lasts for 2.2 seconds. We output the simulation results in every 1000 iterations.
```

  energy_last = 0.0100
  energy = np.linspace(energy_first, energy_last, number_of_cases)

  rolling_friction_first = 0.3
  rolling_friction_last = 0.7
  rolling_friction = np.linspace(rolling_friction_first, rolling_friction_last, number_of_cases-1)

Simulations can be launched using the following commands:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  python3 generate_cases_locally.py
  python3 launch_lethe_locally.py

---------------
Post-processing
---------------

The Granuheap machine captures 16 pictures around the heap in a 180-degree arc. The images generate a map that distinguishes areas with constant particle presence (black), no particle presence (white), and varying particle presence (expressed through different shades of gray). The image below shows the map of the wet sand experiment and is provided as ``experimental_result.png``

.. figure:: images/experimental_result.png
    :width: 200
    :alt: experimental_result
    :align: center

Running one case
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To compare only one simulation with the experimental results, the ``post_processing.py`` file can be launched using the following command.

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>   pvpython post_processing.py

Reviewer: pvpython is often distributed with paraview but not always. Let me try on my machine to see what it gives.

>   pvpython post_processing.py

Reviewer 2: Sorry... I know what is pvpython (actually, I am the one who told her to use it)

I think i lt would be good if we explain what it is here.

>   pvpython post_processing.py

Reviewer: Well it can be explained in 2-3 lines.

  num_output = 'granuheap'
  # Output path (see OUTPUT PATH set in the simulation subsection of the parameter file)
  out_path = 'output'
  # Definition of variable parameters
  parameter1_name = 'Surface Energy'
  parameter1 = [0.0010, 0.0040, 0.0070, 0.0100]
  parameter2_name = 'Rolling Friction'
  parameter2 = [0.70, 0.50, 0.30]
  # Number of pixels in height and width of your experimental support (to adjust if you change experimental result)
  height_exp = 60
  width_exp = 85

The code will generate a map for each simulation and then subtract them from the experimental map. Those errors will be presented in a new image saved as ``profile_shape_error.png``.

.. figure:: images/profile_shape_error.png
    :width: 600
    :alt: profile_shape_error
    :align: center

To confirm which simulation has the lowest error, an image saved as ``error_values_heatmap.png`` will present a heatmap of each simulation Root Mean Square Error.

.. figure:: images/error_values_heatmap.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: error_values_heatmap
    :align: center

The lowest error is obtained when the ``rolling friction`` is 0.5 and the ``surface energy`` is 0.0100. 

.. note::

>   The following libraries will be necessary to run post-processing files; PIL, numpy, matplotlib.pyplot, os, glob, scipy.interpolate and UnivariateSpline. The Paraview software is also needed. 

Reviewer: Should not matter here
I tested on 5.12 and 5.13 and both were fine

==================================

This example simulates the flow of a cohesive granular material inside a `Granuheap <https://www.granutools.com/en/granuheap>`_ instrument using the discrete element method (DEM). For more detailed information on the concepts and physical meaning of the parameters in Lethe, we strongly recommend visiting `DEM parameters <../../../parameters/dem/dem.html>`_.

----------------------------------
Features
----------------------------------

- Solvers: ``lethe-particles``
- Three-dimensional problem
- Moving solid surface
- `GMSH <https://gmsh.info/>`_ grids
- Multi-case simulations

----------------------------
Files Used in This Example
----------------------------

All files mentioned below are located in the example's folder (``examples/dem/3d-granuheap``).

- Mesh file: ``cylinder.msh`` and ``support.msh``
- Python file to generate mesh files: ``gmsh.py``
- Parameters files for the problem: ``granuheap.prm`` and ``granuheap_multicase.prm``
- Post-processing python files: ``post_processing.py``, ``post_processing_multicase.prm`` and ``post_processing_functions.py``.

-----------------------
Description of the Case
-----------------------

> This example simulates the flow of wet sand during a Granuheap experiment. First, the packing of particles is generated by inserting particles inside a cylinder. After 1.6s, the cylinder rises, and the particles can flow freely, producing a heap. We compare the numerical results with our experimental results. To remain consistent with the Granuheap experiment, we use the same metrics in our simulations: a cylinder of 0.01m in diameter. For more information aboutt the Granuheap procedures, visit the `Granuheap web page <https://www.granutools.com/en/granuheap>`_. To match our experimental results, we test multiple combinations of parameters in our simulations. We use the work of Hu *et al.* [#hu2022]_ as a basis to choose which contact properties will create those combinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example simulates the flow of wet sand during a Granuheap experiment. First, the packing of particles is generated by inserting particles inside a cylinder. After 1.6s, the cylinder rises, and the particles can flow freely, producing a heap. We compare the numerical results with our experimental results. To remain consistent with the Granuheap experiment, we use the same geometry in our simulations: a cylinder of 0.01m in diameter. For more information aboutt the Granuheap procedures, visit the `Granuheap web page <https://www.granutools.com/en/granuheap>`_. To match our experimental results, we test multiple combinations of parameters in our simulations. We use the work of Hu *et al.* [#hu2022]_ as a basis to choose which contact properties will create those combinations.
```

-------------------
Generate Mesh Files
-------------------

> To generate the ``cylinder.msh`` and ``support.msh`` files, we used the ``gmsh.py`` file. The two functions take as input the bottom's position (x0), the radius, the number of points in the circumference, and the height. 

Reviewer: I would give a better  name than gmsh.py to the file. Like something like: generate_meshes.py or something similar.

.. code-block:: text

  cylinder(x0, radius, n_points, height)
  support(x0, radius, n_points, height)

> In this case, the cylinder is 0.02 tall with a radius of 0.005 and the support is 0.005 tall and has the same diameter as the cylinder. We fix the number of points in the circumference at 50 for both the cylinder and the support. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the cylinder has a height of 0.02m and a radius of 0.005m. The support has a height of 0.005m and has the same diameter as the cylinder. We fix the number of points in the circumference at 50 for both the cylinder and the support. 
```

C'est quand même beaucoup de points. Je pense pas que c'est un problème, mais clairement ton mesh est un peu fin.

.. code-block:: text

  cylinder(-0.005, 0.005, 50, 0.02)
  support(-0.01 ,0.005 ,50, 0.005)

.. figure:: images/meshfiles.png
    :width: 400
    :alt: Mesh
    :align: center

Mesh files can be generated using the following command.

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  python3 gmsh.py

.. note::
  GMSH is needed to generate mesh files. See `GMSH website <https://gmsh.info/>`_ for installation and `Introduction on How to Use GMSH <../../../tools/gmsh/gmsh.html>`_ for more information. 

--------------
Parameter File
--------------

Mesh
~~~~~

> The domain we simulate is a rectangular box measuring :math:`0.045\times0.02\times0.02` meters, made using the deal.ii grid generator.  The grid is refined 6 times using the ``set initial refinement`` parameter so that the cell size is approximately 1.5 times the highest diameter value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The domain we simulate is a rectangular box measuring :math:`0.045\times0.02\times0.02` meters, made using the deal.ii grid generator.  The grid is refined 6 times using the ``set initial refinement`` parameter so that the cell size is approximately 1.5 times the largest particle diameter value.
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection mesh
  set type               = dealii
  set grid type          = subdivided_hyper_rectangle
  set grid arguments     = 3,1,1 : -0.010,-0.01,-0.01 : 0.035, 0.01,0.01 : true
  set initial refinement = 6
  end
  
  
Boundaries Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The bottom of the domain is set as an outlet to allow the particles to leave the triangulation, thus reducing the computational time of the simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bottom of the domain is set as an outlet to allow the particles to leave the domain, thus reducing the computational time of the simulation.
```

  set young modulus wall           = 1e7
  set poisson ratio wall           = 0.33
  set restitution coefficient wall = 0.9
  set friction coefficient wall    = 0.5
  set rolling friction wall        = 0.5
  set surface energy wall          = 1e-4
  end

Model Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 

The JKR contact model is used in this case because it has be shown to correctly model particle agglomeration for wet sand [#hu2022]_ .

.. code-block:: text

  subsection model parameters
  subsection contact detection
  set contact detection method                = dynamic
  set dynamic contact search size coefficient = 0.9
  set neighborhood threshold                  = 1.3
  end
  subsection load balancing
  set load balance method = frequent
  set frequency           = 100000
  end
  set particle particle contact force method = hertz_JKR
  set rolling resistance torque method       = constant_resistance
  set particle wall contact force method     = JKR
  set integration method                     = velocity_verlet
  end

  subsection restart
  set checkpoint = true
  set frequency  = 10000
  set restart    = false
  set filename   = dem
  end

Particle Insertion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> An insertion box is defined inside the cylinder. 10 000 particles are inserted every 9000 iterations. It is important to note the size of the insertion box to ensure it is completely inside our cylinder which is smaller than our domain. Otherwise, particles will be lost during the insertion stage given that the domain's bottom is an outlet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An insertion box is defined inside the cylinder. 10 000 particles are inserted every 9000 iterations. The size of the insertion box is chosen to ensure it is completely inside our cylinder which is smaller than our domain. Otherwise, particles will be lost during the insertion stage.
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection insertion info
  set insertion method                               = volume
  set inserted number of particles at each time step = 10000
  set insertion frequency                            = 9000
  set insertion box points coordinates               = 0.015, -0.00325, -0.00325: 0.035, 0.00325, 0.00325
  set insertion distance threshold                   = 1.2
  set insertion maximum offset                       = 0.05
  set insertion prn seed                             = 19
  set insertion direction sequence                   =  1, 2, 0
  end

Solid Object
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We set the cylinder's translational velocity to :math:`0.05 m/s` after the particles were loaded, thus when the simulation time is higher than 1.6s. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set the cylinder's translational velocity to :math:`0.05 m/s` after the particles were loaded, thus when the simulation time is larger than 1.6s. 
```

  subsection solid object 0
  subsection mesh
  set type                   = gmsh
  set file name              = cylinder.msh
  set simplex                = true
  end
  subsection translational velocity
  set Function expression = if (t>1.6, 0.05, 0) ; 0 ; 0
  end
  end
  subsection solid object 1
  subsection mesh
  set type                   = gmsh
  set file name              = support.msh
  set simplex                = true
  end
  end
  end
  end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The process duration lasts for 2.2 seconds. We output the simulation results in every 1000 iterations.

.. code-block:: text

  subsection simulation control
  set time step         = 7.54e-6
  set time end          = 2.2
  set log frequency     = 1000
  set output frequency  = 1000
  set output path       = ./output/
  set output name       = granuheap
  set output boundaries = true
  end
    
-----------------------
Running the Simulation
-----------------------

Running one case
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A simulation with one set of values for the ``rolling friction`` and the ``surface energy`` can be launched using the following command:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

>   mpirun -np 8 lethe-particles granuheap.prm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mpirun -np 12 lethe-particles granuheap.prm
```

Reviewer 2: Cléo, did you use 8 or 12 cores to run the simulation? I know your desktop have 12 cores, but you are giving the time it takes to run the full simulation (5 hours) right after.

Reviewer: In the end it does not really matter, as long as the time is reported on a given number of cores
